making a shrimp pad thai so like all
great Asian dishes particularly Thai
we're gonna start with a sauce and in
order to get going here we're just gonna
boil up a few things to start with I
have 3/4 of a cup of tamarind juice now
tamarind juice is something that I have
noticed you can find more and more and
more in the supermarket I used to eat
the spiced tamarind candies but they saw
them all like the Caribbean markets
which basically like sour and sweet
taste it and describe what you think it
tastes like 1/4 of a cup of soy sauce
you know what it tastes like it's like a
slightly more sour and sweeter apple
juice you know what maybe you should use
apple juice and put a little squeeze of
lime in it if you can't find tamarind
juice basically you're just doing a
little bit of liquid that's a little
sweet and a little sour I think that's a
good idea
1/3 of a cup of palm sugar which we were
looking at before it's a cool little
disc and it's an interesting sweetener
and kalter chopped it up for me you
could use 1/3 a cup of brown sugar I'm
just showing you some of the authentic
flavors here that I've discovered I have
fish sauce here which I keep all the
time in my fridge and it's a little bit
less than a third of a cup you want to
get in there and if you don't have fish
sauce I always say just thin out some
soy sauce because it's a little salty
yes there's a flavor there that's really
unique but anyway if you don't have it
that's what you can do and then of
course calder because it's us we're up
there's some of your peanut sauce
probably probably is mine knowing
knowing my you dink habits ok one
teaspoon of sriracha chili sauce and we
just get this going and let it heat up
on the stove and that's gonna be the
basis for when we start cooking our
shrimp pad thai in the wok we're gonna
need this sauce to put in that's what
gives it that Jimmy it's gonna be like
the sauce that tastes like the pad thai
we all know that's right now to get
ready for our pad thai of course noodles
are the key so I have rice sticks here
which don't get boiled the way regular
noodles do you just put about 8 ounces
of them into a bowl and then you need to
take water that is not boiling anymore
but it's quite hot and you just pour it
over top and then you soak those noodles
and once they're soaked they're ready to
be put in the wok with everything else
and at the end they'll have perfect
texture this is fried tofu but you could
use an extra
tofu if you don't have fried tofu
although it is at a lot of Asian
specialty shops so if you can get that
done kaulder I'm gonna start with the
wok action which means you have to have
everything ready so I'm gonna actually
just finish cutting up the rest of my
scallion here and we want it in about
two inch pieces and if you've ever had
shrimp pad thai from your takeout store
you'll see it seems a little bit strange
to cut it like that but that's exactly
how it looks so I'm just gonna cut this
and I have my wok over here which is
getting as flaming Li hot as I can get
it and I've cut here a bunch of about
three or four shallots and I'm putting
them in two piles and you'll see why in
a second and be careful over there and
pay attention over here because you're
gonna want to make this yourself when
I'm not around to just cook it for you
or I can't order it yeah you could order
it in but hopefully this is gonna be way
better than that so I go in here with a
good half a cup of safflower okay so a
lot of oil a lot of safflower or peanut
oil but in this case I'm gonna use
safflower oil and Ingo beautiful
beautiful shallots the first thing I'm
doing with these shallots it's just
getting them golden and fried so we want
these to just be golden and they're
almost there
and wok cooking involves a lot of in and
out if you want to do it right I mean
you just keep throwing stuff in the wok
means it just steams before it really
cooks
so I've got a plate here so I can just
keep getting stuff in and out okay this
looks good so I want to leave behind the
oil and I want to just bring everything
cooked out of the wok and just see how
nice and crispy it's gonna be all right
now into here goes
all of those scallion that I cut the
rest of the shallot and calder our
shrimp which we peeled and we left the
tail on and it's a pound of medium
shrimp you just get that right in there
oh that's really starting to smell good
doesn't that smell great all right now
depending on where you're getting pad
thai you can get chicken pad thai or you
can get shrimp or a lot of time this
both chicken and shrimp in it when you
don't have a ton of ton of heat which in
a restaurant they'd have a lot more heat
I leave it here for one second - just
get cooked let's see how you're doing
over here Oh beautiful on the tofu
that's just beautifully cut now would
you mind call they're just taking four
of the eggs and I'll be all ready then
if you whisk them sure all right this
looks like it's cooked on one side I'm
gonna stir-fry it which is what the idea
is and you get all the aromatics in
there you can start to see how the
scallion breaks down and the shallot
brings so much flavor to it
and we basically need to cook this until
the shrimp is cooked through before we
move on to the next stage and that's a
really important thing about wok cooking
you just don't want to just cram a bunch
of stuff in the wok because otherwise it
just steams before it gets a nice
coating on it hey you stressed that to
me so much with wok cooking and with any
high heat cooking in general yeah and
you know what it was hard for you guys
to understand when I would make like
Thai fried rice and I'd only make it in
batches so that it was perfect and we
would never make him out he'd never make
enough and I'd be just making batches
I'd I wouldn't even get to a batch for
myself before one of the four of them
would want another batch and I don't
blame them because Thai fried rice is
amazing all right we're getting there
you got that stun you've got your tofu
done it looks like this is ready to come
out and you can then just throw in the
tofu so I always just have a plate
standing nearby to receive all of the
stuff that's already cooked and again
it's okay if we leave behind just a
little bit of stuff okay so why don't
you put that tofu in there beautiful all
right so we really just want to cook
this until it's completely heated
through on both sides and it's got a
little of the patina from the wok my
friend who taught me a lot about wok
cooking said you want a little bit of
the taste of the wok in your food
okay kaulder at this point if you can
dream those noodles that's gonna be the
last thing we do after we finish with
our eggs they'll be all ready to go
these rice sticks have been soaking for
about thirty minutes just to soften them
this is beautifully cooked so this can
come out these noodles ready to go in
there
not yet I have one more thing to do and
that is I just want to cook the eggs
first and those will take no time at all
but now everything can just get it kind
of piled right up in there okay and go
with the eggs well just let that cook
for a sec I'm gonna turn off the sauce
here this is plenty warm and this is
just like scrambled eggs you can see it
goes it gets right away it just starts
to cook mmm I love this part of the Pad
Thai and I love I loved wok cooking
because you know it's like you got to
get the layers of flavor you really can
see how you add the layers exams like it
it's like real and you just got to make
sure you get everything off the bottom
okay so these are a little bit wet I'm
gonna get everything out here when I say
what you don't have to cook the eggs
completely so we'll get all of that out
onto our plate and you know what I'm not
gonna worry so much about leaving a
little bit of the egg behind because
right into this pot goes our sauce that
we made and so I'm gonna just let me
just get one second to lift up the eggs
that are around the edges it's still got
all got the grape flavor just mix it
around a little bit and when you know
you're gonna have liquid going in there
doesn't matter because it picks up all
the little bits in go our noodles I've
done would you mind putting the rest of
the cooked shrimp and tofu an egg right
back in here carefully and while I was
busy putting everything together in the
wok kalter actually got all our
condiments ready which is a wonderful
thing because this dish is just it's
amazing like this but it's beautiful
with all the condiments so if you give
me a bowl I will serve each of us a dish
so I'm so excited and then we have our
fried shallots that we're gonna put on
top and at this point I'm going to turn
off my wok cuz everything's done I'll
give you I know you probably want there
you go
make sure that you get some tofu I keep
giving you all the shrimp I'm sure you
don't mind that
at all okay mmm I'm sorry you're gonna
get a little messy all right I think
that's good for me to start with and
then we can take it down and go eat
trying to grab the shallots should I put
another platter full no you know what
maybe I'll just do put this whole thing
on the platter cuz if I know you you're
gonna want more than I gave you we have
our amazing fried shallots and there we
go
Pad Thai we've already eaten up all of
our beef satay so it's time to sit down
and I can't just stress enough about
when you're eating Thai food especially
in a restaurant or you see photographs
of Thai food in Thailand it's all about
the condiments I'm gonna put some bean
sprouts I'm squeezing a lime I'm putting
some extra peanuts and some cilantro
thanks for watching hungry for more
click here for more great recipes and to
subscribe click here check back every
week for more craveable recipes leave a
comment and tell me what you think and
don't forget head over to our other
channels for everyday food with Sara
Kerry Martha Stewart Weddings and the
Martha Stewart Channel